I have been very busy lately with my work. It is good when you enjoy what you do and I have been fortunate to have had that opportunity. I feel thankful.

Ever since I moved into Product Management, employers, peers, mentees and companies that I consult with have always been asking why I chose Product Management. My answers have evolved as I grown in my career and have had rich and diverse experiences as a product manager. When I walk down the memory lane to the early stages of my career, I find it amusing when I hear what my answers were to be for why I am interested in Product Management. Truth be told, I was fascinated by this field because I had seen many former product managers climbing to the upper echelons of the company. I wanted to be one of them. However, I was informed by various sources, including schools and alumni but not those who were actually hiring me, that I should not be very upfront about my desire to climb the ladder. Thus I worked hard to prepare a pleasant sounding story on why I want to be a product manager. If I were to interview myself now and hear those very words, I would cringe. I am sure the hiring managers then cringed too, even then one generous hiring manager took a bet on me and gave me a platform to be a product manager. My heartfelt gratitude to this person. 

Over the years as I have honed the art of product management, and worked and learned from some of the prolific product managers, I have realised that deep down I have always enjoyed the chaos, ambiguity and problems that come with being a product manager. As I have grown in my career, the nature of problems have morphed into something that can drive one crazy but that is the beauty of product management, which has taught me how to have zen-like peace within this chaotic craziness. There have been times when I have been sleepless at nights wondering where did I go wrong that no user is using the product as much as I want them to or no user is spending on products I have launched as much as I want them to. However, there have also been nights when I have learnt something new about users, something new about human behaviour and psychology that surprised me, taught me new lessons only to see usage and adoption of my products growing exponentially. There have been days when many of my pilots have failed, invalidating many of the hypotheses and earned the ire of my team for even thinking about the pilot. And, there have been days when pilots have been so successful that they transformed in to high revenue generating products in the hands of tens of millions of users. 

Stakeholder management has been one of the key learning experiences in understanding the human psychology. I have not learn about humans anywhere as much as while working with them in the high-pressure dug out zones. Those differences of opinions on prioritisation, desire to always push their things ahead, and using their position within the company to try to make things happen are all one of the many things that a product manager deals. Early in my career, I would get frustrated because I always felt that I have amazing soft skills and I can convince anyone. Boy! I was wrong. Over the years, I have learnt the art of diplomatically managing stakeholders across all levels of the organisation and during this have turned many naysayers into allies and strong supporters. Now, I never got to be a psychology major so I owe to product management for teaching me so much about humans. 

As I dive deep into my past experiences and introspect, I have come to realise that I enjoy product management and all that chaos, conflicts, ambiguity, and most importantly learning about my fellow humans that comes with it. I have started piloting the answer that I enjoy product management that’s why I am into product management. So far I have conversed with 44 people in a quick pilot. I am amazed at the responses to my answer. Majority say, that’s it? No long spiel? While a few, who I can count on my fingers, say that’s a perfect answer.
