---
layout: post
title: Wisdom to Become a Better Person
description: motivational thoughts to become a better person
keywords: motivation, better person, Bhagvat Gita, boy fence holes, What has been said can never be unsaid, You will always find good in everything, You can only control the action, not the fruits, how to overcome failures, how to overcome rejections, how to be a better person, how to win friends
---

Holidays are a great time to introspect. As I gather with family and friend, hear about incredible lessons they have learned throughout the year and learn about life’s wisdoms from my parents and grandparents, I can’t help wonder how incredibly lucky I am to have such wise, generous and kind people in my life and how much more is there to learn in life. 

One theme that is common across every generation and every generation is how to be a better person. Below are some of the amazing insights I have gathered over the years and which have been helping me become a better person everyday.

**_If you believe you can do something, you are right. If you believe you cannot do something, you are right_**  
Belief is a key ingredient to succeed in life. Having strong belief is like having 51% of the battle won, you are closing in on the final victory. My grandfather when born was fragile, worried by his father whether his boy will do something meaningful in his life. A conversation with his brother drove my grandfather to have strong belief in himself to almost a maniac level. You see early on his childhood, my grandfather was told that he will not account to anything big in life for he was sickly, sensitive and not smart. My grandfather vowed that he will prove his brother wrong. What followed was grueling self-discipline and a collage of activities and not letting any failure bother him. He had deep seated belief in himself that no matter what he will thrive, no matter what he will get what he wants in life. He will get for sure, if not today then tomorrow. This philosophy of my grandfather has never failed me. 

**_It doesn’t matter what happens, what matters is how you react to it_**  
This story is often repeated and I don’t know who to attribute this story to - my grandfather or various other sources on the internet. What’s important is the lesson it imparts. Here’s the story. An alcoholic father has two sons - one follows his father’s footsteps and ends up alcoholic and struggling throughout life, and the other becomes a successful, sober businessman and a doting family man. Each son says he is the way he is because the father was an alcoholic. Everything was same for these two sons, yet different outcomes. What happens to one is a cold hard fact, how one responds to it is a choice, and that choice defines how your life will turn out to be. You cannot always control how things unravel but what you can control is how you react to how things unravel. You are defined in life by your actions, and the best action you can take is how do you choose to react to things around you.  

**_You will always find good in everything, only if you seek it_**  
You can cry about how fallen leaves have made roads dirty, or you can enjoy that fall with its colorful leaves is coming. If you try finding good in everything, no matter how tough the challenges are or how ambiguous the situation is, you will have a hope of positive things happening. On the contrary, if you only find bad or if you start observing more bad than good, and you are unable to change your situation then you will end up being miserable for your situation. 

Got that promotion and $25,000 more in salary? Great! Don’t be surprised if you end up missing your kids’ soccer practice. Did not get the dream job with a salary of $150,000? Lamenting that you had to settle for a job with $100,000 salary? Don’t be surprised if the latter provides you opportunities that you have never thought of 5 years down the line where you are making a salary of $200,000. There is good and bad in everything. Either choose to find good and perpetuate positive thoughts, or embrace bad and live with negative thoughts. 

**_If you see wrong and do not say wrong, you are equally wrong_**  
Your heart knows what’s right and what’s wrong. How can one live with good conscience knowing that fraud is being committed or something unethical is happening, yet not doing anything about it? The whistleblowers at Enron and Theranos are example of bravehearts who decided to act after discovering numerous problems and fraud perpetrated. These bravehearts did not relent even in the face of threats and bullying. It’s tough to always do the right thing; it’s difficult to see wrong and call it out as wrong. It’s key to remember that doing the right thing is all that matters, and turning a blind eye to wrong is supporting that wrong. 

**_Everyone you meet is an expert in something_**  
You may be the best in one or two things, so are others. Everyone is better than you at something. Someone is better than you in solving rubik’s cube, writing software, or well versed in Shakespeare. There is no one person who is best at all the things, there will always be a few areas where they have room for improvement. Always have the humility to accept that you are not best at all things, even many things, and that the universe we live in is one giant classroom always teaching us something new and always making us realize that there is always a room for improvement in us. Going about everyday with this openness opens us to infinite learning opportunities. You will be amazed at how quickly you grow and how much better you become.   

**_You can only control the action, not the fruits_**  
You will experience failures, no doubt about it. Your expectations and desires will not be met. What do you do then? Do you give up? Do you lament why you failed? Do you stop whatever you're doing because you failed? Just because you failed once or twice or thrice, does it mean you will fail again? In Bhagvat Gita, an ancient Indian literature of wisdom, it’s said that that do you work, do it well then let go. That’s all there needs to be. We are only entitled to the action, never to the fruits. Have satisfaction in knowing that you made the effort to do your best, to become your best. You can’t control how things unravel, however what matters most is how you react to those things. Key to success is not never stopping your actions because of a few setbacks. 

**_You can recover everything except time_**  
Anything can be reconquered be it money, land, reputation. But time can never be regained. One can never go back in time to change things, to undo past, to prepare better for what they should have prepared for. No one can ever get back the lost time. When we are young, we think we can always get back lost time, we can perhaps purchase that lost time by spending money. And, it’s only much later do we realize that we can never get back time. Time is precious so embrace it, hold on to it and make the best of the time you have. 

**_What has been said can never be unsaid_**  
Words once left tongue can never be taken back. Words are very sharp and a single word can cause thousand cuts. You can always get up after you fall but what has been said can never be unsaid. 

There goes a famous story about a boy and his father. There once was a little boy who had a bad temper. His father gave him a bag of nails and told him that every time he lost his temper, he must hammer a nail into the back of the fence. The first day the boy had driven 30 nails into the fence. Over the next few weeks, as he learned to control his anger, the number of nails hammered daily gradually dwindled down. He discovered it was easier to hold his temper than to drive those nails into the fence. 

Finally the day came when the boy didn't lose his temper at all. He told his father about it and the father suggested that the boy now pull out one nail for each day that he was able to hold his temper. The days passed and the young boy was finally able to tell his father that all the nails were gone. 

The father took his son by the hand and led him to the fence. He said, "You have done well, my son, but look at the holes in the fence. The fence will never be the same. When you say things in anger, they leave a scar just like this one. You can put a knife in a man and draw it out. It won't matter how many times you say I'm sorry, the wound is still there." 

**_Do not compare yourself with others, you do not know the reality of others_**  
Never compare yourself with others. The problem is that you never know what is the real situation with others. Just because someone uploads photos with smiling faces, doesn’t mean those smiling faces are happy. They could be burying thousands wounds and tears that is not visible when the photo is taken. Just because your neighbor bought a nice car doesn’t mean they are rich. They could be knee deep in debt. Just because your friend and his wife travel to far off places, doesn’t mean they are rich. They could be up to their credit card debt and about to get fired. They could be projecting a lie, living a nightmare, not showing it to rest of the world. People do a very good job of projecting false images. Don’t fret and Don’t compare. You never know what is the reality.

If you are living the life you know is right, proud of decisions you have made and content with what you see in the mirror then don’t be swayed by what others are doing - be it exuberance or pessimism - you live your life and you let others live their life. Keep doing what you are doing. 
