---
layout: post
title: Indian politician decides to pluck money from his tree
description: Understand how Rahul Gandhi will fund his policies 
keywords: Rahul Gandhi, Narendra Modi, Rs 72000, INR 72000, 2019 elections, India general election 2019, Pappu, minimum income guarantee
---

<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7"> 
Indian Prime Ministerial candidate Rahul Gandhi, the leader of Indian National Congress, the oldest political party in India, has finally decided to end poverty forever and uplift over 50 million poor families in India. Under Rahul Gandhi’s plan, each family will receive INR 72,000 (~US$ 1030) annually - this amounts to a total of US$ 51.5B annually for 50 million families.  Rahul is confident that his policy will lift millions out of poverty and fulfil the dreams of his ancestors, primarily great grandfather, grandmother and father, all of who have been former Prime Ministers of India. </p> <br />

  
<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
Such a generous move came as much needed delight for billions of Indians who were tired of ineffective policies of current Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Prime Minister Modi, who won elections with a large majority in 2014 elections, has not been able to reduce poverty in India in the last five years. Under his ineffective leadership, the Indian economy has grown at an average rate of mere 7% in the last five years. </p> <br />


<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
When Rahul Gandhi was initially asked how he plans to fund this policy, he stated that specifics will be detailed once he has become the Prime Minister. He asked everyone to just trust him. Many economists, including the current Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, were left scratching their head on how Rahul Gandhi will make it happen. On further pressing, Rahul Gandhi did a back of the envelope calculation to show that his policy will cost just 2% of India’s GDP. He requested everyone not to fret so much about a miniscule 2% cost. </p> <br />


<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
Pappu, who goes only by first name and who is the chief advisor to Rahul Gandhi, highlighted that the policies of his boss will make people 12 times more rich than what policy of Prime Minister Modi would do, which currently provides a support of INR 6,000 (~US$ 85) annually. When confronted about the details and feasibility of the scheme and its impact to India’s fiscal discipline and debt, Pappu highlights that Rahul’s policy will not increase India’s debt. When asked whether the funds for the scheme will be generated by increasing tax burden on taxpayers, Pappu highlights that taxes will never be raised under Rahul Gandhi. </p> <br />


<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
Pappu further highlights that since Indian economy will grow by 10% year-over-year under Rahul Gandhi, spending additional US$ 50B should not be a problem. Leading economists and industrialists are wondering how is Rahul Gandhi going to pull this off without increasing taxes or country’s debt. Leaders of various countries are all ears to Pappu and Rahul Gandhi. </p> <br />


<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
Getting tired of repeated questions by media, economists and industrialists, Pappu finally revealed that Rahul Gandhi found a magical money tree during his visits to Colombia, a place Rahul Gandhi frequents during his spring breaks. This tree grows money instead of leaves, and Rahul has planted these trees in his backyard. When questioned why Rahul Gandhi never revealed this before, Pappu highlighted that Rahul didn’t know about this tree until last week. Once he came to know what this tree can do, Rahul immediately imported and planted them in his backyard. Since last five days, Rahul has plucked and collected so much money that he is confident by the end of the year, Rahul will have US$ 51.5B to fund his scheme. </p> <br />


<p style="text-align: justify;line-height: 1.7">
Indians are beyond belief after listening to Pappu. Millions are already marching to Rahul’s house to get a glimpse of this tree. Many are hoping to steal some so that they can grow it in their backyard. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is speechless. Leading economists and media personnel India who doubted Rahul Gandhi earlier have now realized unanimously that they have found their next Prime Minister. </p> <br />

	
<link href="//cdn-images.mailchimp.com/embedcode/classic-10_7.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style type="text/css">
	#mc_embed_signup{background:#fff; clear:left; font:14px Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;  width:300px;}
	
</style>  
	 

<link href="//cdn-images.mailchimp.com/embedcode/classic-10_7.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style type="text/css">
	#mc_embed_signup{background:#fff; clear:left; font:14px Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;  width:300px;}
	/* Add your own Mailchimp form style overrides in your site stylesheet or in this style block.
	   We recommend moving this block and the preceding CSS link to the HEAD of your HTML file. */
</style>  


<form action="https://gmail.us20.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=0e628327d496d7cbe86598540&amp;id=801bf936e2" method="post" id="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" name="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" class="validate" target="_blank" novalidate>
    <div id="mc_embed_signup_scroll">
	<h2>Subscribe to our mailing list</h2>
<div class="mc-field-group">
	<label for="mce-EMAIL">Email  <span class="asterisk">*</span>
</label>
	<input type="email" value="" name="EMAIL" class="required email" id="mce-EMAIL">
</div>
<div class="mc-field-group">
	<label for="mce-FNAME">Name  <span class="asterisk">*</span>
</label>
	<input type="text" value="" name="FNAME" class="required" id="mce-FNAME">
</div>
	<div id="mce-responses" class="clear">
		<div class="response" id="mce-error-response" style="display:none"></div>
		<div class="response" id="mce-success-response" style="display:none"></div>
	</div>    
    <div style="position: absolute; left: -5000px;" aria-hidden="true"><input type="text" name="b_0e628327d496d7cbe86598540_801bf936e2" tabindex="-1" value=""></div>
    <div class="clear"><input type="submit" value="Subscribe" name="subscribe" id="mc-embedded-subscribe" class="button"></div>
    </div>
</form>

<script type='text/javascript' src='//s3.amazonaws.com/downloads.mailchimp.com/js/mc-validate.js'></script><script type='text/javascript'>(function($) {window.fnames = new Array(); window.ftypes = new Array();fnames[0]='EMAIL';ftypes[0]='email';fnames[1]='FNAME';ftypes[1]='text';fnames[3]='ADDRESS';ftypes[3]='address';fnames[4]='PHONE';ftypes[4]='phone';fnames[5]='BIRTHDAY';ftypes[5]='birthday';}(jQuery));var $mcj = jQuery.noConflict(true);</script>


<br />
